Cul-de-sac research

Emailed Trent

Research
1. Entitlements
2. Real Estate Development
3. Cities

1. Entitlements

https://cordonrealestate.com/real-estate-entitlements-explained/

Entitlements are simply specific permissions granted to property that relate to its use.

Real estate entitlements may apply to improved properties (those which have already buildings and landscaping on them), but we most often consider entitlements when we’re buying or selling unimproved land.

Entitlement requirements typically originate in a county or city’s general plan.

General plans typically paint in broad strokes, but they establish requirements for more specific documents such as zoning and land use regulations. Building codes provide further detail for standards of construction, materials and maintenance. Some communities also require compliance with architectural review boards as part of building code compliance. Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&Rs) might also be put in place by developers of office parks and residential communities. Although not the same as government regulations, they are a contract entered into when purchasing a property and are therefore binding. Finally, when we grade, build, remodel, or landscape, permits are required to confirm that design and construction complies with all applicable requirements and that inspections are performed throughout the improvement process to verify compliance.

General Skill: Understand maps and technical documentation.

Specific Question: Where can we build?

Hierarchy of requirements

Entitlements (found in general plan)
Zoning and Land Use Regulations (planning department)
Building Codes (maybe planning and zoning?)
Architectural Review Boards (maybe not required in all communities)
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&Rs, writer by developers, may not be something we need to deal with) 

https://centerpoint-is.com/zoning-vs-entitlements/

While zoning codes predetermine what certain land can be used for, entitlement is an approval that must be gained from the government to develop land the way you want.

A lot goes into the entitlement process, and before granting it governments will consider a plethora of variables including traffic impacts, environmental risk, and community responses to a potential development.

http://archive.uli.org/fallmeeting2012/wed/DenverEntitlements-DavidFarmer.pdf

Entitlements describes the whole process.

Comprehensive plan / General Plan -> Zoning -> Land Development Regulations -> Permits

Mind the community, they can derail the process (I know this from Berkeley for sure).
Mind the federal, state, and regional agencies.

There are two different systems:

• Tiered Entitlement System
– More detailed permits must be consistent
with more general permits

• Interdependent
– Each level can prevent a project from
going forward
– Not all reviewing agencies share the
same perspective on approval criteria –
resulting in a disjointed, non-linear and
sometimes conflicting process

Ok, let's see if we can take a look this process.

Density Area Map
https://www.tempe.gov/home/showdocument?id=22109

Oh wow, tempe has a great GIS system.

Let's look at development projects
http://tempegov.maps.arcgis.com/apps/Shortlist/index.html?appid=e2b8a9338e3948c0ab6abf93b858f508

Well, found cul-de-sac's development project, called Eastline Village
https://www.tempe.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=78664

Tempe.gov GIS Portal
https://data-tempegov.opendata.arcgis.com/
Wow, sign-in via GitHub? I'm impressed ESRI, keeping up with the times. Doesn't allow access. If I remember correctly you have to pay for it.

Do I have experience with entitlements?

Reading general plans, reading zoning maps, accessing databases, finding Phase I and Phase II Environmental Reports, and running site stability analyses, 